OK.
Now let's talk about includes now includes is a little different from the way that we've been writing
the other array methods that we've covered so far includes is essentially a method that takes a single
argument and that argument will be any element that we want and what it does is it checks inside the
array to see if the element that we passed it exists in our array.
So let's try this out well let's first make our array which is equal to let's say 1 2 3 4 5 if we do
my array that includes
three we'll see that it's true because three does exist in our array.
Now if we were to say try something like nine then we will get false because nine is clearly not inside
of our array.
The second argument we could take in are includes is the index in which we want to start searching.
So what do I mean by this.
Well our array is actually indexed from our first element to its last element starting from 0 and counting
up by 1.
So 1 is our array element at index 0 2 is our element at index 1.
Now I know with this example maybe it's a little confusing so let's do another array let's use const
new Array equals these three objects while new array at index 0 is our first element right.
Our first object i.e. 1 element at index 2 is our last one because this is 0.
This is 1 and this is 2 1 thing to keep in mind with using includes and our second argument let's say
in our original example with my array we wanted to see if the number 2 exists starting from our third
index.
This means that it's starting from 4 it's going to check if 4 includes are 2 it doesn't or a 5 has our
2 which it doesn't.
So here we'll see that we won't get false so essentially if we were to try this except instead we were
to start from our second index well we'll find that it's true because starting from 2 it'll see that
2 is included starting from this part of the array onwards but this is essentially how it works with
includes when we're comes to using what are called primitive types.
Now I'm going to explain what those are.
But first I'm going to show you why this is important if with our new Array let's say for example we
wanted to find our second object with I.D. too.
If I did new Array dot includes and then I tried to find the object with Ida to well we'll get false.
But why is that even though this object looks exactly like the element that does exist inside our array.
Why would we get false.
Well this is because of the way that JavaScript references objects versus primitive types.
Now what are primitive types.
Well let's actually look at this diagram here in this diagram.
Imagine there is a memory bank and this is internal to JavaScript inside this memory bank.
JavaScript has a reference to every primitive type.
And there are six of them.
There are strings.
Strings being anything that we see between quotation marks.
So this is a string is a string boolean is true or false.
No.
Is the null object undefined is also undefined a unique primitive type numbers.
So this is any integer.
Right.
So that's not any whole number and also any float.
So any decimal number these are also all primitive types that fall under the category of number and
symbol which is a bit more complicated but it's essentially a unique thing.
We don't really want to go too deeply into symbol because we're not really going to use it but these
are the six primitive types and these primitive types all exist inside of JavaScript memory bank.
Now when we set a constant or a variable equal to a primitive type like say the number three what drives
a script is doing is it's setting it's creating this new variable that we want called a.
And it's pointing its value to the number three in its memory so it's actually pointing to three in
memory.
Now when we set variable B to three it does the same thing.
It creates this new variable called B and then it also points to the same three points to three in memory
if we set variable C to be it's actually not pointing to our value of b instead it points to B which
then points to our value in memory of three if we were to see this in action let's say we did var b
equals three and var c equals B if we look at sea we'll see that the number is pointing to three.
If we changed B to five B is now pointing to the value and memory of five right.
It's not really setting a value it's worst.
We're saying that our value of B wants to point to the five.
That's in JavaScript memory but C is still pointing to 3.
So C is not always going to equal whatever B becomes C will only point to the value that B pointed to
when we set it.
Why was it that this didn't work well inside of JavaScript.
Anything that's not a primitive type so not any of these six types is called an object and an object
is unique.
Whenever an object gets in scanned created it gets its own unique reference in memory.
Now before we explore this what is an object.
Well everything else in javascript that is not one of these six primitive types as we mentioned is an
object right.
So arrays are also objects and you can essentially just see objects as collections of things that have
properties that have values.
So my array right.
The arrays that we've created they all have properties right because they have these methods on them
and methods are pretty much just properties that point to functions.
That's why we're able to use them like functions but we call them with the dot notation like it's a
property on the object right.
And we're used to seeing objects as these curly braces with key value pairs inside them.
Well you can pretty much see that as everything else in javascript that is not one of those six primitive
types that we're talking about now when ever you see an object get instantiated for the first time or
for any time for that matter what you're seeing is javascript store that object as a brand new reference
in memory.
So what do I mean by this.
Well let's say we made a new concept object one which equals to this object with the idea of one.
This I object gets a new reference in memory even if we were to make a new object to write.
Let's say we were to point it to a different object but it looked the exact same.
This is actually going to be different if we do object one equals object to it's going to give us false
because what javascript is comparing if the reference in memory is the same.
It's not comparing whether or not this value of this object is equal to each other.
It's comparing if they're both pointing to the same place in memory this only works if we were to do
something like we did earlier when we pointed our value of C to be but instead if we were to say point
our concept OBJ 3.
Right.
So this new concept we want to point to object to
one now we'll see that OBJ 3 is pointing to this object.
Now we can see that because both object 3 and object 2 are pointing to the same object in memory if
we do a comparison we'll see that it's actually true because the reference and memory is the same.
Now the interesting thing about objects is that if we change the properties on them if we add them or
or modify them they'll always point to the same object reference in memory.
So if I were to do object to dot I d equals 17 while now object to is I'd be 17 but object 3 you'll
see still points to the same object in memory so that would be how we would get our includes to work
is we would actually do cost 0 1.
Right.
Equals a new object with idea of 1 const 0 2 is equal to another object with idea of 2 const 0 3 is
equal to an object with idea 3 and now we'll say const newest array is equal to 0 1 0 2 and 0 3 so now
if we were to display it we'll see that inside our array is those 3 objects that we just made and now
if we do newest array dot includes and we were to point to let's say 0 1 we'll find that it's true because
what we're referencing is that pointer in memory.
So even though our array is this array the elements inside are not new objects but they're all pointing
to the same elements in memory which is why when we do the includes the evaluation is true because that's
essentially what includes is doing under the hood it's checking if the reference that we're passing
in right is equal to the any of the elements inside by their memory reference.
So this is a bit of a longer lesson because we have to understand this very fundamental thing about
objects and how javascript stores things in memory but also how includes works when comparing and trying
to find if an element exists in the array.
We'll definitely explore these concepts a lot more as we code and they'll definitely make more sense
why the code we write is structured the way it is based on these rules.